there are only three reasons why things
do not happen the way you want them to
happen as a leader and you can look at a
person and you would say either that
person can't do which is a capability
issue or they won't do which is a
motivation or an alignment issue or they
were not set up to do which is really
your problem that you didn't set up the
ways of working in a design properly so
as a leader do you have the right people
in terms of capability and if not is the
right answer for us to coach them or to
like really put them or Mentor them and
so on or move them to some other place
because maybe the capability suited
elsewhere if they won't do why won't
they are they not aligned to you do they
not agree with your vision do they not
have enough time and so on so forth so
you need to really go deeper there why
won't they
do today my guest is Anuj rati I've been
looking to get more India based product
leaders on the podcast because this
podcast has a large audience in India
and when I put out a call on Twitter and
Linkedin asking people who I should have
on Anuj was the single most requested
person Anuj is Chief product and
marketing officer at Jupiter money
previously he was senior vice president
of Revenue and growth at swiggy where he
spent 7 years he was also a vpf product
at snap deal a senior pm at Walmart labs
and the very first product manager at
flip cart where he led the buyer
experience team in our conversation we
dig into how product management is
different in India anisha's lessons
about Building Product experiences for
new users how he operationalized the
working backwards process at the
companies he's worked at why he pushes
his teams to explore three Divergent
directions before settling on a plan why
he thinks product managers and companies
should be much more full stack than they
are also a bunch of Frameworks and
contrarian takes about Building Product
and your career in product a big thank
you to cion Mighty and nikil karney for
helping me navigate the product scene in
India look for more amazing India based
product leaders to come with that I
bring you Anu rati after a short word
from our
sponsors this episode is brought to you
by sanity your website is the heart of
your growth engine for that engine to
drive big results you need to be able to
move super fast ship new content
experiment learn and iterate but most
content Management Systems just aren't
Built For This your content teams
wrestle with rigid interfaces as they
build new pages you spend endless time
copying and pasting acoss cross pages
and recreating content for other
channels and applications and their
ideas for new experiments are squashed
when developers can't build them within
the constraints of outdated Tech Forward
Thinking companies like figma amplitude
Loom rot games linear and more you
sanity to build content growth engines
that scale Drive Innovation and
accelerate customer acquisition with
sanity your team can dream bigger and
move faster as the most powerful
headless CMS on the market you can
tailor editorial workflows to match your
business re use content seamlessly
across any page or Channel and bring
your ideas to Market without developer
friction sanity makes life better for
your whole team it's fast for developers
to build with intuitive for Content
managers and it integrates seamlessly
with the rest of your Tech stack get
started with sanity's generous free plan
and as a Lenny's podcast listener you
can get a boosted plan with double the
monthly usage head over to
sanity.io Lenny to get started for free
that's
sanity.io
Lenny
this episode is brought to you by vanta
helping you streamline your security
compliance to accelerate your growth
thousands of fast growing companies like
Gusto Comm Kora and modern treasury
trust van to help build scale manage and
demonstrate their security and
compliance programs and get ready for
audits in weeks not months by offering
the most in demand security and privacy
Frameworks such as sock 2 ISO 2701 gdpr
Hippa and many more vanta helps
companies obtain the reports they need
need to accelerate growth build
efficient compliance processes mitigate
risks to their businesses and build
trust with external stakeholders over
5,000 fast growing companies use V to
automate up to 90% of the work involved
with sock 2 and these other Frameworks
for a limited time Lenny's podcast
listeners get $1,000 off vanta go to
v.com Lenny that's
v.com Lenny to learn more and to claim
your discounts get started
today
anudj thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast thank you so
much Lenny thank you for having me it's
my pleasure I haven't told you this but
when I put a call out on Twitter and
Linkedin for people's favorite
india-based product leaders you were the
single most recommended person and so I
just wanted to start with how does it
feel to be the most loved India based
product leader at least according to my
Twitter followers and Linkedin followers
wow it feels uh it feels really really
good and uh I really feel it's it's come
together because I've been doing product
management for the longest time in 2010
when I started uh the product management
Journey with Flipkart I think that that
was a time when there were not a lot of
products being built for India so I
think one part is is just the tenure and
B is I think it's just a lot of people
have known that work awesome you're very
modest I wanted to start with a question
about product in India and I'm just
curious just how is product management
and product building in general just
most different in India yeah I think
that's a very interesting question and I
think about this all the time like uh
when I look at product management in
India and I do have like a lot of
friends comparing product management
versus say in us or even in Europe
versus even in China southeast Asia Etc
I think India has had like a very
interesting journey of products in
general and hence product management
also I think till about
2010ish uh there were not really many
products built for the Indian consumers
in the first place place like there a
lot of products being built a lot of
Technology being built uh but largely
because it was it was a back office so
you were so you had like a lot of great
Engineers but kind of working in
companies which would build products for
for the American customer or even for
the European customer and so on so once
these startups started coming in which
were thinking about building for the
Indian consumers uh I think we we did
not really have that Talent which could
which you could directly tap into who
were trained into into product product
building forget management as a field uh
in the first place there were no
colleges which were teaching anything
about this there was no playbooks and so
on so forth we would go to to the
internet and look at YouTube and and
look at svpg and all of that but uh what
we would understand would not kind of
you could not Port directly to the
Indian startups uh and the way that they
shaped up I think also shaped up the way
product management field would evolve in
India so it's it's taken like a bunch of
iterations and I think there are like
two or three different waves that have
come in and we are way closer to how
good product management should be done
in India we still have a little bit way
to go compared to to say us and I also
think of it it it along like for example
in us the product building culture
probably started in 1970s the modern
software product building culture and
you didn't only have product managers
but the entire ecosystem if you think
about a company like who is the VP of
Business and who is the VP of supply and
sales and Ops and technology and all of
that that group knew how to work with
each other to build software products
they understood how that would be built
and what to expect I think in India when
when we were in 2010 Etc even those
different people who needed to come
together to build like say e-commerce uh
they would come from say fmcg or they
would come from manufacturing and so on
and what they would have seen in their
Journeys in terms of what to expect is
is a very request response kind of of
understanding which is here's Machinery
if I give this X resources I expect with
a little bit of variability why
predictable output to come and that
mentality also kind of moved on to what
I expect from product managers or
product building Journeys and so on so I
think over a period of time a lot of
those Cycles have happened and a lot
more other leaders in companies have
have now seen those cycles and kind of
understood and all right now I
understand software is not Machinery uh
consumers are not predictable as much as
we thought and that has led to now
finally I think product management
coming of H you said that in the I guess
in the Bay Area things started like 1970
or something like that when would you
say things started to really ramp up in
modern product thinking in in India I
think 2010 was kind of when it started
because uh look there were there were a
few products that were built before that
also and I think uh somebody said this
clearly that usually when when modern
consumer internet starts coming in
countries it usually starts with travel
so so you do have like basically any
country we would start with which is the
first travel company so I think India
started with with some companies like
make my trip and and so on like way
earlier there were a few very
interesting products being built in
India which were solving uniquely for
the Indian consumers uh that were in the
matrimony side which is shadi.com and
bhat matrimony.com and so on but like
what do you think about Tinder like
India is famous for arranged marriages
so like a product that would that would
really understand that hey if you are a
parent if you want to get your kid uh
you know up for M money how would you
solve for them and that Marketplace of
matchmaking Etc started so a few blips
here and there which was soling uniquely
for India I think 2010 was a decadal
time when I can like very clearly
imagine that's where like a lot of
people started building for India so I
think and Flipkart started that that
kind of Journey but in a couple of years
then they were like say Ola which was in
a way similar to Uber what they were
doing elsewhere and then a whole bunch
of other startups that started coming in
so for example in food delivery when I
was working at swiigy that came in like
say 2015 2014 in that time frame and and
now you see a whole bunch of startups
which are trying to do not only things
which are what could an Uber for India
look like or what what could a do dash
for India look like uh very different
and also very Innovative so so I think
now is is a time when you see a lot more
product building around that area what
are some numbers of just like companies
in India people in India's money spent
in India I don't know things that would
be like wow that is a much bigger
opportunity than I thought all right
this is um a very wide question so um I
I'll tell you before the opportunity in
India I think I'll talk about the
complexity in India which is which is
very uh which which I think a lot of
people don't understand so India has
what uh 1.4 billion people so there are
three waves really that that happened in
India but also in in the globe I think
first wave was like from desktop to to
mobile and then then even from Mobile to
smartphones and from smartphones there
was what we call the GE Revolution
there's an Indian company called stance
Geo that basically got internet at the
cheapest prices for smartphones so
because of this a whole population came
onto the internet which was hungry for
newer products newer content completely
different ways of interacting with each
other and using internet for all sorts
of different things that was one of the
Waves the other part is is really what
the Indian government really enabled
which is especially in um in
digitization of a bunch of absolute core
fundamental you know citizen related uh
Machinery which is either through
digital payments uh which is a whole
bunch of Indians now started having a
bank account by default and something
called UPI so even if you do not have a
bank account or that bank account is
linked to your mobile phone number but
now everybody would pay through that and
that brought in like a very different
kind of Revolution so even if five
rupees that is basically like you know
10 cents or less than that that would be
paid through UPI and and people started
moving away from cash and so on and
there's something called the India stack
that is like all of these things coming
together which is social security
identity payments and so on that a whole
bunch of other apps can now use to build
their own um you know layers on top of
that so many interesting cases kind of
started coming about so that's kind of
one which is just a number and in the
infrastructure now the other thing to
look at is India is very diverse so the
number of languages spoken here even the
official languages is is so high uh and
they say there's this code in India like
every 15 miles the language will change
and the people and their culture will
change and it's a huge country of of so
many people so your traditional ways of
thinking about products also that whom I
building for is very different is are
you building for this person or that Etc
so a bunch of Frameworks kind of break
down because it's not even that the same
language will apply while English is a
language that is used by the people at
least who have the money and who have
the the dollar to even like give to you
but but you have to think way more
widely the other thing that about India
that is interesting is
U the price that people are willing to
pay so and it generally is also look at
like the per capita you know money that
people have is very low it's in the two2
and a half th000 range compared to us
which is maybe for 30 times more and so
on right so while there's lot of people
who are going to give you you know
traffic and engagement and so on but
with the craft of of actually choosing
the right kind of paying customer who
will actually come and engage and give
you money is is is at a premium so a lot
harder work needs to be done if you're
running e-commerce who are the people
who will pay me delivery fee who are the
people who will actually buy this
expensive stuff and so a whole bunch of
of different ways of thinking has
evolved in in this country and and
that's why it's so vibrant and so
different than any any other Global
products wow fascinating uh I can keep
going but I want to talk product I've
collected a bunch of questions from
people that know you or people that have
worked with you all about a bunch of
different stuff so I'm just going to
kind of go a little bit all over the
place and the first area I wanted to
talk about is the new new user
experience apparently you have a
interesting insight and kind of a
different approach of thinking about new
users and new user experiences one of
the things that I realized once we
started working about the products is
that product managers and and generally
companies are too engross in thinking
about because they're very close to the
product it's close to their heart and
they're looking at it all the time they
looking at a lot of minor nuances in
terms of how this works and feels and
almost inherent into this is the bias
that everybody is thinking about this
product all the day all the time and so
on so forth whereas the reality is most
consumers in the country or in your
target market they don't care and they
may have sometime heard about your
product the word of mouth is not ever so
strong even if you are the strongest
brand and so on so forth but that is the
the customer that you've got to bring in
and then serve so there's very
interesting Insight that I heard from
Scott bsky um from Adobe and then now
he's doing like very interesting stuff
and that kind of stayed with me and
which was you had to think about users
or modern internet consumers having
three attributes so they are lazy they
are Vain and they're selfish so lazy
meaning I don't have time for this so
blow my mind away otherwise I'm not
going to pay attention when which means
I have a habit I'm solving this problem
in a particular way and here you come
with your two product and and asking me
to change my habit do you really expect
me to do that that's second that's their
inherent attribute and the third one is
that they selfish like show me what's in
it for me and once you start thinking
about users in that way and if these
users are not even using your product
like suddenly you realize oh my God it's
quite difficult even how do I attract
this kind of customer and if my
marketing team has done a good job at
bringing this user to my product how do
I actually now empathize with this lazy
selfish and M customer and build my
product in a way so that I can make this
we on your side like this is the thing
that that you have to use the way you
write your copy the way you build your
on boarding the way you do your first
warm welcome it it's going to make the
biggest amount of change in terms of a
product success than your core product
features that you're going to build for
your loyal consumers so that one insight
and I've seen and applied that multiple
times not only the companies that I
worked with the companies I've consulted
and and spoken with uh most neglected
well they kind of get user on wording is
important but just how important is that
uh is one and B just a craft of thinking
like a user who's lazy V and selfish and
basically rejecting all your products
this does not work for this kind of
customer it's extremely hard it's very
hard but it's totally worth it if you
put that lens on and is there an example
of you're using this framework at on a
product you worked on where you're just
like here's the thing we really did that
I I don't know had a big impact or
really surprised everyone so I we used
it in in like two different areas so one
is uh of course products I worked on so
I worked in in swiy for the last seven
years and really when we started working
towards this user instead of thinking
about everybody as a as as you know this
is what our onboarding experience looks
like and this is what our product is so
essentially we used to basically say key
uh that it's we are a food delivery app
we are a grocery delivery app and we
have like these bunch of things instead
of that we just started reframing it
from the from the point of view of what
would you want and how could you use us
and what is it in in it for you and we
started connecting all our marketing
messages along with the onboarding so
even going out market and thinking where
do you actually find us how did you know
about us it's a reasonably large brand
why have you not already downloaded us
and used us have you used us and
rejected Us in the past so kind of
building that enti mental model and
looking at
a a user from the point of view of let's
assume that you have heard about us 20
times and what was that exact situation
that brought you to download this app so
right from the entire journey of of you
hearing us what was a trigger and what
was the marketing message and what was
the promotion that we were running
and how do we continue that Journey on
your onboarding from your slash that 200
rupees of of X rupees if you buy from us
continuing that entire journey in the
language that they understand and with
the user experience that is continuation
from the marketing to product are the
things that we started focusing on a lot
more and it instantly started uh like
you know showing us results but while
I'm talking about like just a very
simple example and everybody should be
doing it that is true even for uh when
you have an have a part particular app
which has multiple products and many
product lines it's the same principle
that applies there and that's where I
think the largest amount of Delta that
happens that people don't know really
why are we not able to cross-pollinate
or cross sell and so on so forth right
now I'm working with a company called
Jupiter which is uh a financial services
app and it's a Neo bank so we care for
personal finance and it has a bunch of
offerings like there's a personal
account or savings account uh there's a
credit card there's mutual funds there
is investments in in say gold and FB and
and so on so forth like it's a bunch of
things but when people think about why
are you using Us only for one service
and just go away actually the key is to
recognize that this user has found value
in and they're not interested in all the
other things that you talked about so be
able to empathize with that user and now
thinking about like the Behavioral
Science aspects in terms of how do I
convert this user from one to the other
that I think is uh is extremely
important so a couple things I'm hearing
here one is the importance of focusing
on not people currently using your
product but this idea of maybe the
marginal user or the adjacent user like
the next state of users is who you
should be thinking about when you're
trying to optimize onboarding user
experience and then two is something it
sounds like you've had a lot of success
with is picking one value prop maybe one
positioning statement and then following
that through their entire Journey versus
like herey all the things we do is that
right that's absolutely right let me
give an example of of this one right
like uh and one of the reasons why
really feel product managers must if not
better but equally understand uh
category consumers which are not in
Market or which are not really looking
or which are not buying your products
just yet as good as the the marketer or
the or the brand expert in your team
does because they really are tased with
what is that one message that I can say
that will make the user take attention
or or get to like oh this interesting
and and and direct attention towards
your product and if the product managers
are able to do that then they will
choose that positioning and essentially
understand what is my hook product and
what is the hook that will at least get
them to try my my app or or any of those
things right so if they understand it as
well as a marketer and then
understand over a period of time what is
the right time when I introduced them to
this other one rather than being you
know very greedy about like letting the
new user try everything so that's one uh
the other thing that I feel is a lot of
product managers don't do right is
forget about everything here's my app go
figure is is is is how most of of the
products are designed unfortunately uh
that automatically these things will
happen without any intervention I have
created something which is so beautiful
and once you tap that icon everything
inside that is my product that is so
working perfectly uh but they don't
really think about at what moment do I
actually get this user here and why will
they use it but this user is lazy rain
and
selfish that phrase reminds me of
something I always think about Mark
andreon had this great quote that your
user time is already allocated they're
not like looking for more apps to
download they already have a plan for
the day basically they have things to do
they're not like it's another iPhone app
I'm going to check out right now and so
somehow you have to convince them this
is worth your time and
I like this this framework is there like
an example of like a phrase you found
really effective in other either it's
Wiggy or Jupiter or flip cart or
anything just like here's a really quick
example of something that had a big
impact on either simplifying the value
prop or if you don't have an example top
of mine what was kind of the impact you
saw from implementing some of these
ideas I'll talk about like a phrase that
uh that now I use with with product
managers a lot to kind of simplify how
they should be thinking I think one
thing is uh and that's not only for the
consumers but even like how how we
operate that we are product managers and
we are in the business of
influence uh users are doing something
and now we want them to do something
else our Engineers are doing something
and now we want to influence them into
building something fast our lead
leadership has some plans we to
influence them to essentially look at a
plan and like basically sign off and do
something else we are in the business of
influence and you are doing this all the
time internally otherwise you are anywh
not successful even in shipping now we
have to extend this to our users and
really think about it from that point of
view and so you are a full stack
influencer and not only an external
influencer so you got to think like more
like sales more like marketing more like
influencers one of the most important
skills of product manager influencing
people on their team and I like the
point that you're also trying to
influence your user that's interesting
just more reason to get really good at
influence so I actually have a
newsletter about how to get better
influence based on froto Baggins and
Lord of the Rings to that in the show
notes okay let's shift to a different
topic you have a really concrete way of
actually implementing the working
backwards process we had one of the
authors of the book working backwards on
recently and I'm excited to just hear
what you've learned about how to
actually put this into practice it's
easy to hear about let's work backwards
but doing it as a different beast and so
I'd love to hear what you've learned
there well I think the the people who
invented working backwards is clearly
Amazon I think they they started this
entire process which are like hey why
don't write a press release and with
that press release we'll work backwards
from from from that one and I thought
that was a very cool idea and I was
trying to dig down into like hey how why
does it work
um my insight or at least my the way
that I thought about this one is it's
not working backwards only from a
customer value proposition will our
customers love love it and will they pay
for it and is it noteworthy and is it
something that we should even be working
while that is one of the most important
things uh that the working backwards
framework teaches us but essentially
what you're working backwards from is is
an entire Machinery at a particular day
that is working for for that date of GTM
what do we need to do from here till
that particular day so that that GTM is
successful but also what will be the
Machinery we would have created so that
this product is successful uh now
because you're already talking about GTM
you're already thinking about how will
users love it what is the money that
we'll spend what are the altern that we
will routes that we have explored that
finally we have zeroed and on and all of
those so they are all going to be a part
of a prf if I take a slightly open
stance on this one what is a press
release a press release is you have a
one pager which talks about what are we
building what is a particular date why
what is exact value proposition what
will consumer say what is what will the
business manager say what will uh how
will they respond how will they uh use
it but the one thing that comes out from
this framework is that you can use it
for a whole bunch of other things you
can use it for negotiation for example
because you start with a date and then
you say this is the one page that I need
to ship and I want consumers to say that
and you can use it to now go to our VP
engineering and say by this date can we
build all of this now they do not have
all the PS and everything but they can
give you a sense that you know this is
too aggressive or this is not and so on
you can also use the quotes here to
actually find alliances or find like
people who are going to actually derail
this so you actually use the customer
code to basically I want my customers to
say this from marketing and from my uh
pricing team can we actually ship this
so the consumers will say that and then
from the business owners quote you
actually say this is what we shipping
but what are your goals can you say that
within three months we would have
achieved this much and so using that to
kind of build one entire picture is is
is one way that I found it really
powerful because if you find
disagreements here then say I can't ship
it then you change the date and and then
you change the goals because all of
these things are changing together so
instead of one you find the other set of
all the things that need to come
together to for that press release to go
live is the real value the other part
that I found interesting here is that I
really truly believe in the power of
three so I I I actually ask my teams to
write three PR releases alternative and
Divergent like what if we so suppose
your launching membership program so
instead of two tiers let's do three
tiers or or for example let's SE another
one which says
instead of uh you know building a
membership let's build a tiering pricing
program which with membership points and
instead of this segment we let's use
another segment let's say within these
three and they all need to be fully
taught through and that kind of helps
the leadership choose so the two things
that help uh that work here when you are
in the in the product Discovery phase
you would have heard from a lot of folks
and and finally if you show them just
one road map uh it feels like hey this
person didn't they listen to my
interesting point which was valuable but
they didn't include it but when you're
doing this three prfq I saying them I
considered this and this added up to a
story that eventually is valuable this
alternative I considered your point of
view and I created a story but
unfortunately it's not adding up so we
rejected it so now people can compare
and contrast and that's a very powerful
leadership tool and that actually is a
very power powerful tool even for cxos
when they say let's build this and say
here are three ways we can build this
and here's the reason why I'm not
building what you said because you would
like these two more that's a really cool
idea of just using the prfq and working
backwards process to think very
differently partly to make sure you've
explored all the options partly to just
like think through things that are kind
of in the back of people's minds and see
if there's something there before
committing to the One Direction so the
fq also are very important to kind of
set processes in the system for example
if now we are Jupiter we Financial
Services app so every fq will
mandatorily have how are you going to
make sure that it is fully compliant
have you gotten sign off from from ABC
people have you actually thought about
legal aspects and so on so forth so for
example you can use the F very
effectively here uh what as for example
when it was swiy and it is uh it's a
three-way Marketplace you have consumers
delivery Executives and restaurant
Partners now any small change that you
do on on say delivery partners for
example if you're working on optimizing
their earnings per hour which will lead
to some changes in cost per delivery but
that may have a completely different
impact on delivery fee I'm just making
this up but uh now because of so many
moving Parts in your FAQs you'll be
explicitly asking have you thought about
what are the implications on restaurant
par have you thought about what are
implications on delivery partners and we
in fact we also have that prfq in terms
of we'll write down the different
segments of of delivery partners and
sometimes it will have extremely weird
correlations because just the product
managers on one side of the equation
have started thinking or at least
Consulting uh the other part of the of
the marketplace what could this mean for
you and just it gets everybody together
to to create very crisp products that
work for all sides of the
marketplace one thread I'm pulling out a
few of your stories so far is you often
come back to this like full stack
approach to many models so you talked
about how PM is like an influencer but
also they're influencing users it's a
cool way of thinking about it with this
working backwards process you can use it
to think about the full sta of launch
not just what features you're going to
build I know you also have some strong
opinions about product managers and they
should be much more full stack than most
PMS does that ring a bell and if so can
you talk about that yes uh no I think
it's it's it's the same thread that is
connecting the first and the second uh I
think product managers have to
be have to own outcomes and and not only
features and and parts of the problem
well they will own some parts of the
problem fully but if they need to work
with everybody to make sure that
eventual product that they launch is
successful and and not only successful
from the point of view of he we launch
something that works for users Etc
that's not the definition of success did
it work in the way that it really
changed the behavior of the kind of user
that we wanted to it achieve a business
outcome they build a capability that is
important for us all of those things
combined will not happen if the product
manager is only thinking about their
part so they have to think about
externally users they have to think
about competition they have to think
about other product managers and product
leaders about engineering about
marketing and so on because it's such a
diverse field unless you really and I'm
not saying you need to be an authority
of that unless either you you are very
very good at that or you have built
Partnerships and have run your ideas or
or product through those people and got
waed from them and finally made a
decision around that part I don't think
you'll be very successful so in my
opinion the full stack product managers
are the ones who are going to be more
successful rather than U product
managers who are doing very good at one
particular area only if so there's one
book which is range right I'm sure like
you may have heard about it right even
the first chapter what they talk about
uh is they take two examples one is the
example of uh Federal Roger feder so
with Roger feder for example I think
I'll just continue that that till 18 he
played like a bunch of Racket Sports uh
and this wasn't even tennis then you
bring in you know ideas from one racket
sport to the other and second to the
third and so on so forth and now you
have such a range of ideas that you can
connect a lot more dots and actually
Shipe it like I think that's the that's
a better playbook for being more
successful in product I was just
watching a documentary on I think it was
called greatness and they had Wayne
Gretzky and he had exactly the same
experience actually when he was young he
played hockey just during winter times
and during summer he played other sports
and hockey was just like s like a sport
one sport he played and then eventually
started to focus on it and they talked
about how people that play different
sports in their childhood actually ended
up being much better at that one sport
they chose so a lot of parallels I know
you also have a lot of interesting ways
of thinking about coming up with road
map ideas and ideating and building a
road map backlog so you already talked
about this idea of going in very
Divergent directions and seeing if that
leads anywhere there's a couple more I
someone shared uh one is you have this
idea of show don't tell what is what is
that actually shun Del is is an idea
which is an extension of what we were
talking about is uh from working
backwards and when we're talking about
working backwards U one is a prfq which
is like a written documentation of what
we're trying to achieve show don't tell
is essentially a way in which the
product manager starts ideating with the
entire experience and they actually
create all the collaterals collaterals
together of a user journey to begin with
if you're working on a single player
product which is a single user product
and then you actually start bringing
together your marketers and others and
terms of what is literally the first
screen and how is my user getting here
and it's not as simple as we imagine
somebody who will be doing this and
reaching here we try to recreate an
exact situation uh there's a concept of
person not personas so I'll we talk
about personas but we try to go to all
right no don't think about a generic
user let's say Lenny 30 years old doing
ABCD things earning this much etc etc
his relationship with this category of
food delivery is X these are the things
that he has done in the last month in
the last three days there were the needs
desires aspirations fears frustrations
etc etc we take okay it's 11:00 what's
happened why is this user open or what
triggered this particular app and then
what happened so you literally start
from there and I think 50% of my product
reviews are are around that part and
then when we say all right then this app
got open do we have the right kind of
way forwards for Lenny to actually
achieve what he came here for and
literally each pixel and each copy and
each word is is going to be in service
of of that part so that's kind of
showing the entire Journey rather than
just saying and assuming uh so that is
something that I found really powerful
with respect to even designing products
or even thinking about why are we
building something what it also helps is
when we are building complex products
especially in marketplaces because once
you building this for the user
simultaneously something is happening on
the other part if it is simultaneous if
it's a real-time Marketplace or
something like that so you're building
something for the user and saying all
right if this guy ordered now there's a
30 minutes time when a delivery
Executives will will will come to come
to the user with food what is happening
what's the emotional state of the user
and let's plot out the 30 minutes time
and let's create like various scenarios
is is like hey maybe he went to the
restaurant and and the food is delayed
or the dude on a bike uh his bike got
punctured Etc what is a consumer
thinking at this time so you show all of
those things in real time and that kind
of cuts out a whole bunch of um of you
know random ways in which the product
could have looked like if you're
creating even a chat bot so just having
that showcase of all Journeys coming
together uh helps a lot in building your
products in the right way so essentially
just getting very detailed and very
concrete with the product experience
that you're building thinking about the
user experience sounds like a lot of
work I can't imagine you do this often
is the advice here to do this once a
year or once and just kind of keep it
updated sounds like you did this at
swiggy and that was a really impactful
way of building the product yeah I think
I think this not only like one way aty I
think like I recommend this every
product manager to do a show don't tell
version of their current version and at
the same time this is a new version all
the time so they can compare and
contrast and very easily kind of explain
everyone why they're doing something in
fact that wall say it's called the wall
it also becomes one common place where
you can get all the stakeholders in uh
because it becomes instead of just doing
the elevat P you can actually do detail
discussions on why I'm choosing this
versus something else and so on so forth
that's a product manager version of
doing this there's also product leaders
version of doing this L which is which I
call strategy on a page and a lot of
people call it like growth Loops like
don't show a user Journey now let's see
the entire strategy of the company
together on one page all right this is
what the market looks like and why will
we get what kind of users and what is
our activation budgets and how how many
of them are we going to get to this next
stage and get them to use it how will we
get them to cross pollinate into
different sections do we need a
membership program are there any
different lever which we'll press more
or less and so on so that also is like a
show don't tell um and not only one but
usually I like to create three of them
as well like why did we choose a
strategy versus the other and that for
example is like a very good way for
product leaders to kind of get two1
strategy that their cxos align with and
something that they can essentially tell
the entire product and other teams this
is what we're going to
follow this episode is brought to you by
Wix Studio your agency has just landed a
dream client and you already have big
ideas for the website but you have the
tools to bring your ambitious Vision to
life let me tell you about Wix Studio
the new platform that lets agencies
deliver exceptional client sites with
maximum efficiency how first let's talk
about Advanced design capabilities with
Wix Studio you can build unique layouts
with a revolutionary grid experience and
watches elements scale proportionately
by default no code animations add Sparks
of delight while adding custom CSS gives
total design control bring ambitious
client projects to life with any
industry with a fully integrated Suite
of Business Solutions from e-commerce to
events bookings and more and extend the
capabilities even further with hundreds
of apis and Integrations you know what
else the workflows just make sense
there's the built-in AI tools the
oncanvas collaborating a centralized
workspace the ReUse of assets across
sites the seamless client Handover and
that's not all find out more at wix.com
Studio what kind of impact have you seen
from implementing something like this or
is there an example of something that
came out of this that was a big unlock
and you know again it's probably a lot
of work for someone to put together a
whole board keep it updated screenshots
marketing funnel of where people are
coming from what sort of impact do you
see from doing this either on growth or
people what people think I think the
largest impact that happens here is on
alignment so how cxos are thinking if
that is not very clear and that can be a
document and so on so forth but for a
lot of people it's not very clear on I
can see one part of the funnel I can
understand the marketing team can
understand the best why we are requiring
those users but they don't kind of fully
see the picture of if I attract this
kind of users why will some these users
become loyal and what does that entire
thing look like or say some other team
which is building a part of the product
where do I come in and so on so I think
the largest impact that the show don't
tell uh tell has is on basically getting
the entire company together on the same
page and and then being able to
understand why I'm doing and which part
of the entire uh you know picture I am
working on and why others are working on
so that I can actually work with them to
solve that part um that's one the other
thing that that it helps uh Lenny is it
also helps in choosing directions like I
said like it's because we are not doing
one but three of them and why I'm
choosing one alternative versus the
other and sometimes these strategic
discussions they can get go in like all
sorts of different ways and maybe you'll
talk about one particular unique point
and go deeper I look at the entire
picture together and say this is good
because of all of the these five points
that we presented in in in page one
versus the other one I think the other
benefit just like one of the benefits of
working backwards and Amazon's whole
written down memo approach is it forces
you to crystallize ideas and not stay
superficial because there's so many like
good ideas in theory but then when you
have to get really concrete now that's
actually a terrible idea like basically
it's the same benefit in a lot of ways
of like get very concrete what do you
actually going to do and that'll help
you identify okay this isn't going to
work what are we even thinking and so so
I like that awesome okay another
framework that you have is something
that you call the 4bb framework for
product strategy can you talk about what
that's all about we essentially saw that
you know um if if a startup actually
usually wants to do like a bunch of of
of things across the board uh there's
always like hey I should be investing in
Tech debt or like building core
platforms that would really help my
product in the long term and that's
super important and that's my
engineering managers and largely people
asking for that bandwidth and then there
is the product manager themselves who is
basically saying I want to do feature
enhancement Buck fixes my version tools
uh you know a few areas experiments and
so on so forth that's a a regular
product backlog that you would work on
on Sprint by Sprint uh then there's this
leadership which will say you know what
now we have a suite of products now I
want to take like a large you know Delta
bet that may work uh it may not work but
uh but we need to make make sure that it
works and but I need work done across
teams and it's not only one person that
needs to do it I need contribution from
four or five of of you that that come
together and deliver that or there are
places where a company is like just
reimagining their identity uh or they're
pivoting which is like all right we were
doing X now we are doing X+ y that's how
we want to be known or we were doing X
now we want to do very little of X
because current consumers okay we will
take care of them but now we want to
Pivot into y right so it usually is in
in these in four of these buckets and
what really happens is it gets down to
product managers eventually prioritizing
between these four so I don't think it's
a tactical prioritization product
manager call it really is a product
strategy call and the conversation that
needs to happen is between say the head
of product and the CEO or or even like
the the leadership if I gave you 100
Focus points how much will you put in
each of these buckets and what are those
four buckets those are the four BB
buckets uh so what are the ones we call
them first BB is brilliant Basics uh the
reason why we call it BB brilliant basic
you need to brand you cannot brand it as
St debt so it feels like very
off because these are brilliant these
are important that's for the companies
built on and the company needs to in
invest in that so that's one the second
one is bread and butter so we that's
your backlog say if the product managers
had no big ideas and they just were left
on their own what would they come up
with and in terms of just improving that
line of business that that they that
they given then there big bets and now
that's where you're um you know larger
ideas that have come together but how
many big bets should we take or or is
this big bet even a big one that's where
you're working backwards or prfq start
becoming even more important uh because
those are the kind of bets that cannot
be taken without everybody basically
signing up working backwards and saying
we will all make this successful uh and
Breaking Bad essentially is a different
world altogether that's where you want
to redefine your company you were doing
um for examp in SW we were doing food
delivery now we want to do grocery
delivery as well it's like a these are
two companies working together or from a
food delivery company we wanted to
become a convenience company so that's
almost Breaking Bad like we again like I
said we got cheesy uh but the good thing
that happens is is now what you can do
is along with your leadership take stock
and the head of product essentially can
say you know what I
can in this in the next year I can
invest a lot less on my brilliant Basics
and we should as a company focus a lot
on this breaking back because that is
existential but then we should not look
back and say why would Tech Systems a
little bit broken this time why were uh
you know we had a little bit more down
times and you can basically blow it out
and and almost showcase what to expect
or for example if we are just working on
a whole bunch of bread and butters so
start seeing a lot fewer bugs customers
will be a little happier you worked a
lot more brilliant Basics tech systems
are nice but you didn't create any
differentiators uh well none of your
bets went out and and your competitors
are catching up so does that sound like
a a better future these are hard
questions and these prioritization
questions I don't think are product
management questions so much as product
strategy questions but in a lot of cases
Executives don't know what they're
trading off against so if you are able
to uh create the conversation around
which buckets do we want to put in and
create three Alternatives I have kind of
tried to do that a bunch of times let's
look at strategy a and this see how to
be Divergent suppose we were putting
like lot fewer uh you know Focus points
in brilliant Basics and a lot more on
for example big bets then there will be
a risk that they will be like we won't
have any experiments or very less
experiments we won't have your bugs will
stay bugs we won but we will get a shot
at like kind of changing the game is
that a future that is that sounds better
or something else which is like because
you're pained also by a lot of bugs and
you know constant down times so which is
more secure but we won't build something
amazing so which sounds better because
you are able to drive that now the
clarity to the product managers is way
clearer in terms of what will they do
and also they would know that if they
are they have been signed up for a big
bet then they will need to contribute to
the prfq they will need to contribute to
the actual uh you know working of that
irrespective of what their product was
but now they're part of something
bigger awesome I love it okay so just to
summarize so people can have a just a
very short definition of this framework
uh brilliant Basics is essentially Tech
debt and like things that just have to
do to like hygiene almost bread and
butter is essentially optimizing the
product the existing product big bets
are big bets and breaking bat are just
like future big rocket like Moon shots
just like transform the way the business
works that's right I love it it's also
interesting another thread that can
comes up again and again in your advice
is exploring all the options before
committing to one like you always I
think sounds like you always try to
recommend three I guess let me say what
I always find is important there is I
think it's important for the product
manager to recommend one along with that
it's not just like here's three you tell
me which one you do it's like here's
three here's my recommendation why is
that your advice too or do you see
something 100% 100% uh so when you have
explored the three you essentially have
done the work on that I have covered all
bases and also crystallized them into
into an a concrete option and now I'm
choosing one on the company's behalf on
the basis of whatever I know about the
market about the company about our
strategy and about how we will make it
successful now if I miss something it's
also a time where you can actually work
with leadership and other product
managers to essentially get that
knowledge complete or if if there are
like if you're 80% right you can
actually use elements of strategy 2 and
strategy 3 to bring into one so that's
always the uh the way that that you
think that one very concrete option but
because you have these other two so that
you're not missing and bringing it
together but ultimately you the one who
is going to Champion this and that's
where the other uh you know leadership
element of Amazon comes in which is
disagree and commit so but once we have
aligned on this one we'll all commit to
to launching this and then the
leadership should not go back and forth
on that part awesome I want to go in a
completely different direction feels
like you have a lot of contrarian
opinions about how to build product and
how to build teams and build companies
and things like that so I just want to
start broad what are some things you
have contrarian opinions about things
you believe that a lot of other people
maybe don't believe or see differently
so one for example excellence and speed
there's always like a question around
that hey would you rather ship faster or
would you sh rather ship better in my
opinion when when you have to make a
choice think more and ship better most
experiments should be thought
experiments they should not even be
tried out because they're obviously
going to fail which is contrary to let's
try it out and then let's see I think
that Wast a lot of company time if you
had uh if you had smart people who could
do meta thinking a lot of experiments
would just not even be live it's not a
rule but it's a preference I think speed
and Excellence are two different axis
ideally you should be better at both but
if you had to choose one choose
Excellence there's another contrarian
opinion uh which is I think most most
product managers and again I'm probably
talking a little bit of of of the kind
of you know people that I've worked with
and and and I've kind of interacted with
in product most product managers should
not even be product managers they should
think a little bit more around whether
this is actually the right field for
them because I think a lot of people
from other areas have entered the field
without fully realizing what it takes so
there is definitely a way in which you
can coach yourself and and and and kind
of work your way upwards of that one but
it's it can make you quite miserable if
you not kind of if it's not right for
you is there something folks should look
forward there that'll tell them you
probably shouldn't be a product manager
either motivation or skill set or
background or anything no I don't think
about like particular U domains that you
come from I have like again a simple
framework of three I think the first
thing is is essentially raw Sharps and
that can manifest itself into problem
identification and problem solving
that's one and also high and all of that
I that is super important the second one
is what I call drive or grit because I
think with that comes a whole bunch of
qualities around curiosity learnability
never giving up consumer back
thinking I really want to solve this and
all of that that that comes with that
third which is a little difference we
talked about that is influence you're in
the business of influence and if you can
kind of see yourself that I'm I'm built
this way or I want to really get better
at these that's when I think this field
is is going to serve you well I love
that everything is three how handy only
the babies are four I I wish I could
comess in
three yeah there's too many things to do
there essentially these are your maybe
your perspective on the most important
PM skills that a good way to think about
it influence grid and just being
smart and I think what you said here is
not like you have to be amazing at these
to get into product and do well it's you
need to be excited about getting better
at skills that's right because I think
uh it's it's not as if that everybody is
born with like a lot of influence like
of course you can get better rated but
it's just a prospect of of that hey I
will need to be influential to succeed
at this job that should excite you and
not scare you away and you should not
like think um that hey you know what I
can get away from this and still be very
successful product manager because most
likely you will know maybe spending a
little more time here so smart you're
probably not going to be able to do a
lot about in terms of grit or influence
is there anything you can share about
what you've seen most helps people
develop at these skills other than just
doing the job for a while and then
starting to get better at this yeah I
think even even smartness I think 80% of
that smartness I think is something
that's that's very achievable you don't
need to be outstanding on that domain
knowledge for example is something just
like an average smart person with person
with no domain knowledge versus you with
armed with a lot of knowledge around
domain and so on can already take you
there where you can take better
decisions I think first one is more
about decision making problem
identification problem solving and all
of that so I think that really can be
developed at least to a level where you
are very effective Drive I think is is
probably the hardest to coach probably
the hardest I've not seen
people with with less Drive actually
eventually turning out with with a lot
of Drive Etc but but they can be
inspired and I think you need to be a
person who can can think about it that
way but the third one influences I think
like there's no negotiation there you
need to really think that I have to be
good at this one there's another
framework that Len I wanted to talk
about and uh when I look at like product
leadership in general and how how do you
think about uh you know different people
and and so on why is it when is it a
product manager problem or your problem
or the company problem there are only
three reasons again why things do not
happen the way you want them to happen
as a leader U and you can look at a
person and you would say that either
that person can't do which is a
capability issue or they won't do which
is a motivation or an alignment issue or
they were not set up to do which is
really your problem that you didn't set
up the ways of working in a design
properly or your okay our structure
success and so on so forth so as a
leader it's it's almost the opposite of
what like what we talked about crit
influence and R shops like if the have
you do you have the right people in
terms of capability and if not is the
right answer for us to coach them or to
like really put them or Mentor them and
so on or move them to some other place
because maybe their capability suited
elsewhere if they won't do why won't
they like are they not aligned to you do
they not agree with your vision do they
not just have enough time and so on so
forth so you need to really go deeper
there why won't they do and there are
different answers for that but if it's a
setup issue and at least I realized that
apart from what product managers can do
almost 70 80% of problems why things
don't happen are a setup
issue uh product leaders or other
leaders have not thought through what
okrs are doing to my company not really
fully thought through around Aug design
if you have read the book called team
topologies that's like one one
interesting book which which starts with
convey law and essentially saying show
me an engineering architecture and I
will actually tell you what the a design
of of this company is but that also
manifests itself in products you can
basically look at a product in most
cases you'll be able to say what was or
design that L to this kind of product
I've heard that book mentioned a couple
times recently I got to check it out
just to uh the three you just shared
which is another three I love it can do
won't do what was the third one again
and didn't do not set up to do not set
up to do that one's a long that's a long
one I think what's cool about these are
it they're essentially ways to measure
performance maybe of a product manager
like performance review it's like can
did you have the skills to do this did
you have the motivation to do this or
did something not set up for you sucess
like you weren set up for Success
basically okay let's go to AI Corner
something I'm trying to do with every
guest
is there anything you've learned about
working with AI that you think might be
helpful to listeners yeah I think a
couple of things uh I think working with
AI many many many teams and companies
get too excited about Ai and the
possibilities and so on and it's almost
like a solutionary to find a problem
within their companies which also is
fine because now you're thinking about
possibilities on on what what this
particular technology can do for my
company so it's a good way to start but
many people don't actually use it in the
best way possible and and force fit it
instead of that you can think about how
do I get AI to work with hi and again
it's connecting back with and this is
something that s Hara invented this term
called hi just to make sure that
everybody understands artificial
intelligence intelligence is important
as much as human intelligence and if
you're not humanly intelligent you're
not going to be artificially intelligent
or AI really help company a lot so
literally any product that you're
building even when it is technologically
you know quite interesting and exciting
and so on it needs to be balanced out
and work together along with a great ux
along with behavioral signs and the and
the combination of those two will
actually make sure that that you're
getting the best outcome of that unless
you are building something which is like
completely back in with no human
intervention that talk about consumer
products largely you've helped build
some of the most successful marketplaces
in
India and in the world I'm curious just
what may be a lesson or two about
building a successful Marketplace one
thing that that I would I would
definitely want to talk about is when
you're thinking marketplaces it's not as
a 1 plus 1 equals to two it multiplies
and we thinking about threeway
marketplaces you almost not need to
think like it's a two-dimensional plane
going into three dimension like it
becomes that amount of complexity and
your regular product management and
Leadership principles kind of start
failing so a bunch of Usual Suspects
will not not work let me give an example
oks will not work uh why not so
fundamentally okrs are a way to think
about objectives and key results but the
fundamental assumption here is that it
is solving for a kind of user uh and
that kind of user you can divide and
conquer and of course there will be like
a little bit of tussle between different
teams but you can get them to work with
each other but if it is working for
three different kind kind of users then
all the goals will all the time be in
conflict with with each other and what
are examples of the three users there's
like the delivery person the restaurant
and user so if you have if you have an
example of uh on the consumer side we
need to collect more delivery delivery
fee
or what does that really mean for those
other two and on the restaurant side hey
we we need to get more commissions
because profitability is a goal and on
the delivery partner side it means pay
them less optimize a little bit more so
but once you start moving one level
those two are already stretched towards
the other direction so they are not
independent levers in the first place
and and the way to even model them out
how will it work out if we choose X
versus what y will change y on z z will
change it's almost impossible to do that
so I've seen okas F multiple times when
you're running this kind of a
Marketplace big bets work much better
that's when you say heyy we want to take
this bet but it's all going to be it's
all going to come together as if we pull
this ler then something else will change
so here's the entire story of let's go
make this
profitable by making delivery fee higher
but maybe not touching earnings per hour
maybe not touching restaurant
commissions things like that so I've at
least found that's a that's a better way
to you know choose strategically which
direction we have to go the other thing
is um managing multiple empathies
together that's not not straightforward
so again swiggy being like a realtime
hyperlocal Marketplace and we discussed
about that right as soon as the order
comes what happens between when user
does this and when delivery executive is
doing something else and what are the
absolute different kind of scenarios
that are going to be faced by by the
delivery
executive uh and at the same same time
how will I really you know work with the
user to manage their emotions so so you
need to manage a whole bunch of these
things together um and product
management here you you cannot have the
delivery executive product manager only
care about that side they also need to
be a champion on the consumer side and
vice versa yeah I find with marketplaces
Uber went through this Li went through
this where the like the supply often
just gets squeezed because they need to
deliver for the customer so like drivers
end up getting hosed you know airb be
hosts kind of get pushed to do things
they may not want to do imagine delivery
people same thing not that you mentioned
Uber for example one of the things that
um that that companies which were
running you know know taxi businesses if
you have just one limited pool of money
for example and you want to get the
marketplace coming with respect to
number of orders per day uh how do you
decide should I incentivize my
users for example for the first ride
first 10 R and so on or put zero money
in there but incentivize my drivers that
you need to come here so you have to
think about liquidity also in in in very
different ways and and sometimes you
need to pull the lever completely uh
towards the other side so the
experiments Al AB experiments also don't
work and that's a very unique thing
about Marketplace and not work I mean
not work in the way that you would
expect them to work uh because there are
network effects all over so if you have
to run a experiments on your driver side
uh if you put half drivers on a versus
half on B but there is a network effect
uh between the both of them when you're
trying to decide which side of the
marketplace to focus on and prioritize
do you have any kind of lons or rules of
thumb of just like focus on the customer
and index towards their happiness versus
the supply versus say the delivery
person the one thing that every that I
think marketplaces need to realize is
that a you need to be operating in a
stable Marketplace so all sides need to
be stable enough so that they're not
going to go away so I think that's a
starting point and that's an important
point because once we have established
that then after of stable Marketplace
then we say that which are the uh which
is the kind of customer that we're in
the service of and which are the
customer that we will really focus on
for example Amazon is very very clearly
a customer Centric
company and if they have to make a
choice they won't because they need to
have a stable Marketplace so sellers
also are very as important but slightly
more important than the customer but for
example if you looked at say Tabo or in
Alibaba their way of thinking is their
aim in life is to create life-changing
experience for 10 million Chinese
Sellers and they will create a market
Market Place from the point of view of
sellers which can actually sell again
they will have the same consumer app and
uh and a seller you know work and so on
they are in in the service of of sellers
so you need really need to it will
derive from the company's Vision I think
the way we had thought about it at that
we had to clarify in our values that the
first value is initially it used to be
customer comes first but that was very
confusing because everybody is a
customer even restaurant is a selling
customer um and so on we had to clarify
consumer comes first like the end
consumer which is actually eating food
because we a convenience company uh that
delivers to the end consumer and when
you're thinking about you know
restaurants or delivery partners and we
work with them because we both are when
you're talking with the with the
delivery partner swiggy and the delivery
we both are in the service of the
customer so you'll build that app also
from that perspective and even the
restaurant side also from that
perspective that you know we both are
together in the service of the End
customer I feel like you have probably a
hundred more Frameworks and processes
and acronyms we can talk about but uh I
know you got to go is there anything
else you wanted to touch on or is there
anything else you want to leave
listeners with before we get to our very
exciting lightning room just last few
words that that want to revise work
backwards from an amazing future so
first thing is creatively imagine a
future and then work backwards from that
and essentially think what will make
that successful and be paranoid about
that hey everything is going to go wrong
and hence I need to just make sure that
it all comes together only the paranoids
survive great advice to leave people
with we reached our very exciting
lightning round I've got six questions
for you are you ready yeah what are two
or three books that you've recommended
most to other people one book is working
backwards we covered that uh the other
one that has shaped my uh my beliefs a
lot is called how Brands grow as by
Professor called Baron shop there two
parts to it how Brands grow one and two
that's both both very good uh the other
book which I really love is and recently
Kunal sha who's the founder of cred and
Indian startup he suggested is the
luxury
strategy and and the reason why I love
that book is because it gets into the
depth of of the human psychology behind
hierarchies and how Lords and kings and
you know those kind of social
hierarchies have shaped how people think
about aspirational products and so on so
highly recommended what's a favorite
recent movie movie or TV show that
you've really
enjoyed I really like to do reruns of
the office so so it's I was trying to
think about this is what is the recent
movie that I watch like no I keep on
going back to the office in some other
episode and try to drive a lot of um you
know soles from Michael Scott and the
okay the US one not the British one or
do you watch both no I've watched both
but but us one has like a lot more
seasons do you have a favorite interview
question that you like to ask candidates
when you're maning product manager
specific which are the products where
you decide speed is more important
versus which are products where you
decide Excellence is what important and
I think that gives me like a good
understanding of their Frameworks and
why they designing what and then we go
back into concrete examples where they
chose one versus the
other and then go take it from there and
then what do you look for in a good
answer to that question I look for
essentially their assessment of risk uh
their assess ment
of how important have they or how well
have they assessed the market and the
competition or the competitive products
in that market and if they if their
answerers let's ship something and we'll
find out and so on that also gives me
basically a point of view that they
really don't understand that uh this
product what they're talking about with
the sh speed uh is not reach the the V
part of the MVP it's not viable or it's
not or I don't know how do you call it
MLP or like whatever but it's not
differentiated enough that it can be
marketed it is not worth enough where
where we can take it to User it's not
going to work for a lazy when and
selfish user and maybe that's not the
answer towards U speed versus Excellence
versus for example there's some product
which are like there's a very clear
competitive differentiation that we can
find there was a clear Market Gap I
wanted to launch something even if it is
half it no problem I want to go take it
out get user feedback I trate and so on
so understanding of the market a but B
also understanding of um their the core
orientation com back to your uh ongoing
advice of being full stack in a lot of
ways and in this case being a full stack
PM thinking about marketing launch and
adoption all those things next question
what is a favorite product you've
recently discovered that you really like
the very recent product that that I like
is called
rise it's a it's a sleep flacking app
and because I am kind of an half
Insomniac and for the longest time I was
thinking about how can I track this so
that what am I doing and how can I
actually get better at this uh so I
really like the way that they actually
help help the end User it's just been a
week since I've started using it what
recommend it has that helped your sleep
yet or too soon to say it's help it's
helped me track my sleep so it's and now
it's it's getting into the Zone where it
is actionable but I like it okay okay
we'll see do you have a favorite life
motto that you often come back to like
to share with people kind of think about
in either work or life would call it a
life modotto as uh as much but but one
of the things that I keep telling like
you know my people who work with me
alongside me and so on uh is stop
externalizing that's one which also
means the the more artistic way to say
that is you are the reason for your own
misery so that's something that keep
using a lot more in a fun way but if
things go wrong if that leadership
meeting didn't happen that way if my
product bombed and so on go back and
let's ask ourselves what could we have
done better what I could have done
better and so on and of course because
I'm also a poker player so so in a way I
understand there is half luck involved
and half skill uh but over a long period
of time if it's only luck and you're
failing and failing and failing you have
to go and look back at your skill so
yeah you are the reason for your own
misery I love that advice be very
empowering and be responsible final
question I was stalking your LinkedIn
you host an event called the secret
secret Suare which is not that secret
because you post about it but I'm
curious just what is that all about and
uh what got you to do these sorts of
events so we just started like me and uh
an ex of M shiwangi uh so we we
essentially wanted to meet cool people
around so that's how it started like
interesting people uh without agenda who
can come together and discuss
interesting stuff about entrepreneurship
about startups about products about
Connections and so on so forth so it
just started like that and now we are we
are on to many many more interesting
things that we are bringing in in terms
of
cohorts and which will be theme based so
it could be around around product
management around marketing around
growth and so on we are strictly keeping
it not not for profit for at least the
next year but but long way to go amazing
and so for listeners this something that
join who should look into this who's
this for absolutely at that time
probably will not call it the secret s
once they expanded no longer
secret okay cool and then I guess is
they just follow you on LinkedIn right
that's how they can keep up to date with
these sort events okay cool yes uh on
LinkedIn as well as on Twitter awesome
an NJ we've gone through so many topics
we've talked about breaking bad and full
stack product management full stack
thinking working backwards bread and
butter rule of Threes I don't know so
many things two final questions where
can folks find you online if they want
to reach out and follow up on anything
we've talked about and how can listeners
be useful to you yes so I'm on Twitter
so on twitter.com anati and Linkedin you
can just search my name I'm pretty
active on both of them uh I do a bunch
of you know not podcasts uh all the time
like you host Lenny but uh but a bunch
of other events as well as uh as docs so
I keep on posting on Twitter we can find
with that amazing and thank you so much
for being here thank you so much Lenny
for hosting it's my pleasure bye
everyone thank you so much for listening
if you found this valuable you can
subscribe to the show on Apple podcast
Spotify or your favorite podcast app
also please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast you can
find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at Lenny's podcast c.com
see you in the next
[Music]
episode